---
layout: post
title: The gardener (working title)
---

"The gardener stopped coming by," she said, staring down at the leaves stirring gently at our feet. "We aren't quite sure why he stopped; we had plenty for him to do, but not too much."

I looked back, turning and looking here and there, for a clue. That single, minuscule hint, the slightest of the trigger to that reptilian part of my brain, the ticket to the denouement. I found nothing. I stared off at the shed. It served as shelter to all of our old implements and the oily, the astringent, and the volatile chemicals that previously sustained the acreage that was slowly becoming fruitless.

The shed sighed and groaned as the breeze picked up. It wanted to be here less than we did.

She spoke again, clearing her throat. "I know you've never had a green thumb but there's no use in trying now." She threw herself to her knees, her body wracked with frustration. "See?" She was raising her voice, punching her hands into the earth, and letting the soil slip through her fingers. She grabbed a fistful and threw it in the air and it evaporated. All of it -- the rocks, too! I swear. "This ground is worthless! Too much sand."

I thought back to the gardener. He had his health and vigor. He held onto this work with an uncompromising and incomprehensible zeal. I imagined the worst, my overactive imagination churning through vivid horrors, a public information film brought to life. 

I could hear her pulling herself up. She rubbed her hands together vigorously and smoothed out her dress. "I'm going inside," she sighed with the shed, corrugated steel roof squeaking in approval. 

The shed, now silent, stared at me, wondering which one of us was going to crack first. 

I stared back. I was not going to let this happen.

I gathered my jacket tightly around me. The rose bushes had withered, and nearly half of them were uprooted by something that so clearly wanted them out.